The Good Place Judgement Tool
==============================================


Introduction
----------------------------------------------

This fun little python tool is based on NBC's show, The Good Place. Spoilers ahead, but doing my best to keep it to S1E1 spoilers, when the premise of the show is explained.

The "Good Place" represents a kind of secular version of heaven, where the Bad Place is the secular hell. Deciding who is "good" enough to go to the Good Place is a very utilitarian, numbers-based approach. This two minute clip from the show explains their calculations and the "points" system:

https://youtu.be/ut0ai4s4mjU?si=6ZUpebJxhSLIgqY1

In summary, every action a person takes is assigned a point value, based on how "good" or "bad" of an action it was. At the end of someone's life, their total amount of points determines whether they go to the Good Place or the Bad Place.

The video clip somewhat implies that the algorithm involves an absolute point threshold. i.e., anyone with over 1,000,000 points goes to the Good Place. The actual numbers and algorithm are kept vague for the entirety of the show, likely because most TV-watchers don't want to think about numbers with their entertainment, but I've personally speculated that the fairest way to handle the judgement is to "grade on a curve", where the percentile of the sum of points, compared to the pool of other humans, is the determining factor.

The purpose of this tool is to experiment with a few different judgement algorithms, all based on "grading on a curve". The generate_world tool can be used to create a world with n humans. And the judge tool can open the world file, and calculate judgement for all humans in the file with several parameters that can be adjusted.

Requirements and Libraries
----------------------------------------------

Using this tool requires some basic experience with Python, i.e., the ability to understand and run python scripts.

Using this tool requires Python 3.3 or newer. The GUI packages used are tkinter, and idlelib, inherent in most Python installations.

Additional libraries can be downloaded via pip. The following libraries are requried:
pandas
pandastable

Files
----------------------------------------------

### World Generation

world files: .csv files containing data on several humans and the points accrued throughout their lives. Important columns are "name", "personality", and "points list". Each row represents 1 human.
A world file can be made by hand, or created by generate_world.py (see Generating a World below).
"name" : a string, i.e. "Eleanor Shellstrop"
"personality" : a string list of personality traits, i.e. "['kind', 'unstable']"
"points list" : a string list of floats, representing the points assigned to every action from that person's lifetime. For simulation purposes, people perform 1 action per year, so the length of the points list is the length of the person's life. Points are affected by someone's personality.
This file can be generated by generate_world.py, or created manually, as long as the above 3 columns are present.



generate_world.py: python file used to create a "world" file.
The world file created will be named "TGPJT_\<n\>_\<timestamp\>.csv". The timestamp is present so that you may create multiple world files with the same n, and they will all be uniquely named. However, you may wish to shorten the name to make it easier to import using the GUI.

tgpjt_info.py: This Python file contains lists and dictionaries for use in generate_world.py

### Judgement

judge.py: main GUI file for running judgement algorithms

judged world files: .csv files containing all of the information from a world file, but also includes calculations and final judgement (Good, Bad, or Medium Place). Columns are "name", "personality", and "points list", same as the world files, and "sum of points", "percentile", and "judgement". The last three columns are calculated anytime the user uses the Judge button on the GUI.

Generating a world
----------------------------------------------

To generate a new "world" file, only the generate_world.py is required. Run generate_world.py, and answer the on-screen prompt for how many humans to generate. The only technical upper limit to what can be entered for n is the Python integer upper limit (2^(63)-1), numbers higher than ~10,000 can take some time for your system to calculate. The script will create a file, TGPJT_n_timestamp.csv , where each row is one person, in the same directory.


For each person, the tool randomly generates a name, a set of personality traits, and a points list for their life. For simulation purposes, people perform 1 action per year, so the length of the points list is the length of the person's life (i.e., a list of 45 actions represents someone who was 45 years old when they died). 



How to use the GUI
----------------------------------------------

To launch the GUI, run judge.py . It is recommended to run with Python warnings suppressed, as the dataframe viewers raise pandas depreciation warnings.

At the top left, find a blue "?" button for help within the GUI.

### Importing a world file

In the top left, you can import a world file. The file must be a .csv, and contain the three columns for a world file (see Files section above). You must type the filename to import in the box, with or without ".csv" at the end.

### Exporting a judged file
In the top right, you can export a "judged" file. This box will autofill with recommended filenames as you import files and run judgement, but can be edited at any time. The GUI will not export and will show an error message if the filename already exists, or if there is nothing to export.

### Judging
In the top middle of the GUI, find the red "Judge" button. There is a light red "?" button to the right of the Judge button, for help in the GUI about specific parameters of judgement. The "Sinner Cutoff Slider" above the Judge button sets the percentile to use as the threshold for the Good Place. If the Medium Place checkbox is selected, a second slider will appear. The sliders then represent two thresholds, the higher threshold for the Good Place, and the lower threshold for the Medium Place. Either slider can be used for either threshold.

### Main Data Viewer
The middle of the GUI is dedicated to viewing the world file, judged or not. When first launching the GUI, a small dataframe with only one row is present. Import a world file in the top left to view. After importing a file and pressing the Judge button, three new columns will be calculated and displayed: the sum of points, percentile (of sum of points), and judgement (Good Place, Bad Place, or Medium Place). Exporting the file using the button in the top right will export the dataframe that you see in the main data viewer.

### Preview Data Viewers
At the bottom of the GUI, see several smaller dataframe viewers, which preview the list of humans going to the Good Place, the Bad Place, and the Medium Place if active. These dataframes show only the name, percentile, and judgement.



Demonstration
----------------------------------------------

In the "TGPJT Demo Files" folder, you can find a few examples of world files, and judged world files. It is easiest to interact with files in your working directory, i.e. the directory containing judge.py, so it is recommended that you copy any files into your working directory before attempting to interact with them in the GUI. If the file is not in your working directory, you must copy and paste the entire filepath into the import filename box.

The following are instructions for practicing in the GUI with the file "TGPJT_750.csv".

Launch the GUI (run judge.py). In the top left, you can import the file "TGPJT_750.csv" by typing the filename in the box, and pressing the Import File button. Both "TGPJT_750.csv" and "TGPJT_750" are acceptable. The first few humans in this file are "Amelia Horvat", "Imene Park", "Priya de la Cruz", and "Mila Park", and you should be able to see them in the main data viewer.

If you press the Judge button now, without changing any settings, the tool will sum all humans' points, calculate their percentile, and assign anyone in the 50th or higher percentile to the Good Place, anyone lower to the Bad Place.

After pressing Judge, the export filename will auto-populate as "TGPJT_750_judged50". Press export file to create a .csv with this filename in your working directory. This file should be identical to the file "TGPJT_750_judged50_demo.csv" in the "Demo Files" folder. This represents a universe where the best half of humanity goes to the Good Place, and the worst half of humanity goes to the Bad Place.

Return to the GUI, and this time, let's set a different sinner cutoff threshold. In the top middle of the screen, drag the Sinner Cutoff Slider to the value 80. Don't check the Medium Place button. Click the Judge button. The export filename will auto-populate as "TGPJT_750_judged80". Click the Export File button to create a .csv with this filename. The .csv you create should be identical to the file "TGPJT_750_judged80_demo.csv" in the "Demo Files" folder. This represents a universe where only the best 20% of humanity go to the Good Place, and everyone else goes to the Bad Place.

Finally, let's create a Medium Place file. Return to the GUI. This time, check the Medium Place checkbox, above the Judge button. You should see a second sinner cutoff slider appear. Click and drag one of the sliders to set the value to 90, and the other slider to set the value to 10. You can use either slider for either the low or high number. Press the Judge button. The export filename will auto-populate as "TGPJT_750_judged10-90". Click the Export File button to create a .csv with this filename. The file you create should be identical to the file "TGPJT_750_judged10-90_demo.csv" in the "Demo Files" folder. This one represents a universe where the best 10% of people go to the Good Place, the worst 10% of people go to the Bad Place, and everyone in between goes to the Medium Place.
